# gatekeeper-go

## Overview

This is an example app used to explore Honeycomb.  It implements the /1/events
endpoint of our public API: see the docs for that on our [main documentation
site](https://docs.honeycomb.io/api/events/). It is intentionally a little
bigger than the normal example app used to demonstrate a library because we
wanted to show a bit about how instrumentation moves through a larger app and
address concepts like context propagation, adding complex objects to
instrumentation, and how timers fit in larger blocks.

## Download or Build

You can download the code by cloning the repository.

Build it with `cd golang-gatekeeper; go get ./...; go build -o gatekeeper`

## Run the server

Before you launch the server, set an environment variable `HONEYCOMB_WRITEKEY`
to your team api key, available from [your account
page](https://ui.honeycomb.io/account). This will configure the server to send
instrumentation events to Honeycomb in a dataset called `gatekeeper`

Running the `gatekeeper` server will start it listening on port 8080. Send HTTP
POSTs to the `/1/events/<dataset-name>` endpoint with an `X-Honeycomb-Team`
header containing one of the hardcoded api keys and with a body containing a
JSON object. The server will process the POST and if everything looks good,
eventually write it to `/tmp/api#.log`, where # is a partition number (between
1-5).

## Sending sample traffic to the server

example of sending an event to the gatekeeper-go server:
```bash
➜  curl -v localhost:8080/1/events/wade \
    -H "X-Honeycomb-Team: abcd123EFGH" \
    -H "X-Honeycomb-Event-Time: 2018-07-03T20:59:08.832016791Z" \
    -d '{"foo":3}'
```

If you want to just see the instrumentation events on the command line instead
of sending them to Honeycomb, change the `beeline.Init` function in `main()` to
uncomment the `STDOUT: true` line. After rebuilding and restarting,
instrumentation events will appear as line delimited JSON objects on STDOUT.

Hard-coded values for `X-Honeycomb-Team` (required header):
* abcd123EFGH
* ijkl456MNOP
* qrst789UVWX

Hard-coded values for dataset names (required in the URL):
* wade
* james
* helen
* peter
* valentine
* andrew

Expected values for `X-Honeycomb-Samplerate` (optional): positive integers. If
absent, defaults to 1

Expected values for `X-Honeycomb-Event-Time` (optional): RFC3339 formatted
timestamps. If absent, defaults to the current time

Any values other than those listed above will cause a HTTP status 401 (for api
keys) or 400 (for dataset names) to be returned by the server along with an
error message.  Errors can also be generated by sending malformed JSON or broken
expected headers

## Instrumentation events generated

Example output instrumentation events you'll see in Honeycomb:

```json
{
  "data": {
    "app.X-Honeycomb-Event-Time": "2018-07-03T20:59:08.832016791Z",
    "app.X-Honeycomb-Samplerate": "",
    "app.X-Honeycomb-Team": "ijkl456MNOP",
    "app.chosen_partition": 3,
    "app.dataset": {
      "ID": 1,
      "Name": "wade",
      "PartitionList": [1,2,3]
    },
    "app.event_columns": 1,
    "app.event_time": "2018-07-03T20:59:08.832016791Z",
    "app.event_time_delta_sec": 246435.65574261,
    "app.gzipped": false,
    "app.hitSchemaCache": false,
    "app.sample_rate": 1,
    "app.team": {
      "ID": 2,
      "Name": "b&w",
      "WriteKey": "ijkl456MNOP"
    },
    "app.timer.get_headers_dur_ms": 0.051346,
    "app.timer.get_partition_dur_ms": 0.001852,
    "app.timer.get_schema_dur_ms": 46.559893,
    "app.timer.resolve_dataset_dur_ms": 0.005554,
    "app.timer.unmarshal_json_dur_ms": 0.107933,
    "app.timer.validate_writekey_dur_ms": 0.001789,
    "duration_ms": 49.061776,
    "gorilla.vars.datasetName": "wade",
    "handler.fnname": "main.handleEvent",
    "handler.route": "/1/events/{datasetName}",
    "meta.beeline_version": "0.1.0",
    "meta.local_hostname": "cobbler.local",
    "meta.memory_inuse": 3275928,
    "meta.num_goroutines": 3,
    "meta.process_uptime_sec": 10,
    "meta.type": "http",
    "name": "main.handleEvent",
    "request.content_length": 9,
    "request.header.user_agent": "curl/7.54.0",
    "request.host": "",
    "request.http_version": "HTTP/1.1",
    "request.method": "POST",
    "request.path": "/1/events/wade",
    "request.remote_addr": "[::1]:52046",
    "response.status_code": 200,
    "trace.span_id": "24e437d5-db44-4d56-9595-9a5352928287",
    "trace.trace_id": "7bb7f70d-0ed8-45f5-818a-dd947fbb2309"
  },
  "time": "2018-07-06T10:26:24.486657235-07:00"
}
```

## Discussion of the instrumentation

### Overview

Before getting into instrumentation, let's talk about the app itself: what does
it do? The sample app is a stripped down version of the Honeycomb API server.
It accepts events, validates them, and writes them to disk. While the [actual
Honeycomb API server](https://docs.honeycomb.io/api/events/) has more endpoints,
does some more management, and writes events to Kafka instead of a local disk,
but this framework is enough to give a feel for how to instrument a real
production service for improved observability.

We started with the [Honeycomb Beeline for
Go](https://docs.honeycomb.io/getting-data-in/beelines/go-beeline/) to gather
the most common aspects of the incoming HTTP requests (remote IP, url, HTTP
method and version, etc.); then add custom user metadata fields, custom
transaction metadata fields, and a handful of useful timers. (We especially
love timers around calls out to third-party services!)

This sample app doesn't create additional spans to form a trace through the
code and simply emits events to Honeycomb for visualization. If the app was
more complex, we may benefit from real traces (for example, if it actually
called out to a database, that'd be a great child span) -- but as it is, the
app is sufficiently simple that a series of well-named timers are enough.

**The Path of Execution**

Once it receives an event in the front door (at `/1/events/<dataset_name>`), it
steps through a number of small tasks:

* get HTTP header values to be used for event metadata
* authenticate the event's write key
* fetch the dataset object to which this event will be added
* parse the JSON body of the event
* validate the schema in the database against what's in the event
* hand off the validated event downstream

Each of these tasks has a timer around it so we know how the total time spent
working on the request is broken up into pieces. This is a common question when
looking at a service: "It's slow! Why?!" It's useful to preemptively measure
spots in the code that you know are going to be slow, but [sometimes you miss
interesting
bits](https://www.honeycomb.io/blog/2017/08/event-foo-building-better-events/).
That's OK! Instrumentation is an ongoing relationship with your
code.

### Details

Ok, so let's step through a few bits.

**Initialization**

Our server uses [`gorilla`](http://www.gorillatoolkit.org/) to route HTTP
requests, which makes it a great target for middleware. After we do our basic
initialization ([see code](https://github.com/honeycombio/examples/golang-gatekeeper/blob/361ded8883719d6f0ea7ba818c4af8c55e4970e0/main.go#L23)):
```go
beeline.Init(beeline.Config{/* config here */}}
```

we'll add our Beeline's `gorilla` middleware ([see
code](https://github.com/honeycombio/examples/golang-gatekeeper/blob/361ded8883719d6f0ea7ba818c4af8c55e4970e0/main.go#L34)):

```go
r.Use(hnygorilla.Middleware)
```

and wrap our router in our Beeline's HTTP wrapper, which is useful for catching
unhandled routes ([see
code](https://github.com/honeycombio/examples/golang-gatekeeper/blob/master/main.go#L42)):

```go
log.Fatal(http.ListenAndServe(":8080", hnynethttp.WrapHandler(r)))
```

**Propagating context**

The Beeline relies on the request context ([see
godoc](https://godoc.org/context)) on each incoming request to propagate the
instrumentation event. In order to give the entire app access to the event in
order to add custom fields, we pass the context throughout the application.

In functions that interact with the request itself (such as
`getHeaders` - [see code](https://github.com/honeycombio/examples/golang-gatekeeper/blob/361ded8883719d6f0ea7ba818c4af8c55e4970e0/main.go#L66)),
passing the entire request is sufficient.

```go
if err := getHeaders(r, ev); err != nil { /* ... */ }
```

In any function that does not need access to the request, we only pass down the
context (such as `validateWritekey` - [see code](https://github.com/honeycombio/examples/golang-gatekeeper/blob/361ded8883719d6f0ea7ba818c4af8c55e4970e0/main.go#L72)).

```go
team, err := validateWritekey(r.Context(), ev.WriteKey)
```

Passing the context around as the first parameter to functions is a standard way
of handling extra context in Go, and you'll see it echoed in many other
packages. It is important to pass it along both so that all your code can easily
add fields to your instrumentation events, but also to enable propagating
tracing information to downstream services.  By using the context and threading
it through your application, you're setting yourself up to make integrating with
tracing easier in the future.

**Timers**

Each interesting function gets a timer added. The `defer` function in Go is a
beautiful way of ensuring that the timer always measures the entirety of the
function being measured&mdash;no matter how the function exits (via an early return,
a normal return, or even a panic!) the timer will still get recorded and added
to the event. Combining these timers with the presence or lack of error fields
and other attributes on the event will let you understand not just how long each
function took but _why_ it took that long.

Here's an example of capturing the length of time necessary to unmarshal JSON
([see code](https://github.com/honeycombio/examples/golang-gatekeeper/blob/361ded8883719d6f0ea7ba818c4af8c55e4970e0/helpers.go#L150-L154)):

```go
// add a timer around unmarshalling json
defer func(t timer.Timer) {
  dur := t.Finish()
  beeline.AddField(r.Context(), "timer.unmarshal_json_dur_ms", dur)
}(timer.Start())
```

The astute observer will notice that most of these timers are measured in
milliseconds - but there are a few fields added to the event that are measured
in seconds: `event_time_delta_sec` and `meta.process_uptime_sec`. This is an
example of the author adding some additional understanding of the application
into the instrumentation. We know that these processes are long running, so
measuring process uptime in seconds (or even minutes or hours!) makes it easier
to interact with the values in that field.  In a similar way, most events arrive
at the API server in with a delay in the range of a half second to five minutes.
Assigning fields the most appropriate unit to allow the people looking at that
instrumentation later on the easiest path to comprehension makes the entire
experience more comfortable for all involved.

**Sanitization**

The `userFacingErr` function is used to separate the information handed back to
the client of the API server (aka the customer) and the operator. In many cases
it's valuable to sanitize internal errors within a server before handing them
back to the client in order to keep the internal implementation of a service
hidden while still providing useful language to the consumer of the application.
It's very useful for the operator of the service to have access to both (the
user's version for responding to customer requests and the detailed version to
understand the internal problem). To ride this balance we provide multiple
fields for each error - the actual error returned by the code and then some
context about that error.
