ruby-gatekeeper/README.md, before:

# ruby-gatekeeper

## Overview

This is an example application modeled after Honeycomb's API server (codenamed
Gatekeeper).
To see real data output by an app like this, and to learn about a real issue
surfaced by exploring production data with Honeycomb, check out our
[Gatekeeper Tour Guide](https://docs.honeycomb.io/gatekeeper-tour/).

This app implements the [/1/events/ endpoint of our public API](https://docs.honeycomb.io/api/events/)
This app was written in order to show how instrumentation moves through a
more mature application - specifically addressing concepts like:
- Context propagation
- Adding complex objects to instrumentation
- How timers fit in larger blocks of logic

## Download or Build

First, create and activate a virtual environment by downloading the code or cloning the repository.

To install the requirements, run:

`bundle install`

Start the application:

`ruby server.rb`

The server will start listening on port 4567.


## Run the server

Before you launch the server, set the following environment variables:

* `HONEYCOMB_WRITEKEY` - specifies the API key (aka "write key") available from [your account page](https://ui.honeycomb.io/account)
* `HONEYCOMB_DATASET` - specify the dataset to where instrumentation events will be sent
* `HONEYCOMB_SERVICE` - specify the name of your app (defaults to the dataset name)

Running the `apiary` server will start it listening on port 4567. Send HTTP POSTs to the `/1/events/<dataset-name>` endpoint with an `X-HONEYCOMB-TEAM` header containing one of the hardcoded api keys and with a body containing a JSON object. The server will process the POST and if everything looks good, eventually write it to `/tmp/api#.log`, where # is a partition number (between 1-5).

example of sending an event to the apiary server:
```bash
➜  curl -v localhost:8080/1/events/wade \
    -H "X-Honeycomb-Team: abcd123EFGH" \
    -H "X-Honeycomb-Event-Time: 2018-07-03T20:59:08.832016791Z" \
    -d '{"foo":3}'
```
If you want to just see the instrumentation events on the command line instead of sending them to Honeycomb, add `(debug: true)` to the `Honeycomb.init` function in `server.rb`. By calling `Honeycomb.init(debug: true)`(and after restarting your server), the instrumentation events will the Beeline will not send any events to Honeycomb, but will instead print them to your app's standard error.

Hard-coded values for `X-Honeycomb-Team` (required header):

* abcd123EFGH
* ijkl456MNOP
* qrst789UVWX

Hard-coded values for dataset names (required in the URL):

* wade
* james
* helen
* peter
* valentine
* andrew

Expected values for `X-HONEYCOMB-SAMPLERATE` (optional): positive integers. If absent, defaults to 1

Expected values for `X-HONEYCOMB-EVENT-TIME` (optional): RFC3339 formatted timestamps. If absent, defaults to the current time

Any values other than those listed above will cause a HTTP status 401 (for api keys) or 400 (for dataset names) to be returned by the server along with an error message.  Errors can also be generated by sending malformed JSON or broken expected headers

Example output instrumentation events you'll see in Honeycomb:

```json
{
   "meta.beeline_version":"0.4.0",
   "meta.local_hostname":"your.localhost_name",
   "service_name":"apiary",
   "meta.package":"rack",
   "meta.package_version":"1.3",
   "type":"http_server",
   "name":"POST /1/events/james",
   "request.method":"POST",
   "request.path":"/1/events/james",
   "request.protocol":"http",
   "request.http_version":"HTTP/1.1",
   "request.host":"localhost:4567",
   "request.remote_addr":"::1",
   "request.header.user_agent":"curl/7.54.0",
   "trace.trace_id":"0212228a-6bb0-41fb-bb76-4f27dd7fbc6e",
   "trace.span_id":"0212228a-6bb0-41fb-bb76-4f27dd7fbc6e",
   "app.HTTP_X_HONEYCOMB_SAMPLERATE":"2",
   "app.HTTP_X_HONEYCOMB_TEAM":"abcd123EFGH",
   "app.HTTP_X_HONEYCOMB_EVENT_TIME":"2018-07-03T20:59:08.832016791Z",
   "app.sample_rate":2,
   "app.timer.parse_json_dur_ms":0,
   "app.team":{
      "id":1,
      "name":"RPO",
      "write_key":"abcd123EFGH"
   },
   "app.timer.validated_writekey_dur_ms":0,
   "app.dataset":{
      "id":2,
      "name":"james",
      "partition_list":[
         1,
         2,
         4
      ]
   },
   "app.timer.resolve_dataset_timer_dur_ms":0,
   "app.chosen_partition":1,
   "app.timer.grab_partition_dur_ms":0,
   "app.event_time":"2018-07-03T20:59:08.832016791Z",
   "app.timer.event_time_delta_sec":1530922191,
   "app.hit_schema_cache":true,
   "app.timer.get_schema":0,
   "response.status_code":200,
   "duration_ms":2.296
}
```

Commit message:

Update gatekeeper application to use new ruby beeline

ruby-gatekeeper/README.md, after:

# ruby-gatekeeper

## Overview

This is an example application modeled after Honeycomb's API server (codenamed
Gatekeeper).
To see real data output by an app like this, and to learn about a real issue
surfaced by exploring production data with Honeycomb, check out our
[Gatekeeper Tour Guide](https://docs.honeycomb.io/gatekeeper-tour/).

This app implements the [/1/events/ endpoint of our public API](https://docs.honeycomb.io/api/events/)
This app was written in order to show how instrumentation moves through a
more mature application - specifically addressing concepts like:
- Context propagation
- Adding complex objects to instrumentation
- How timers fit in larger blocks of logic

## Download and start

To install the requirements, run:

`bundle install`

Start the application:

`bundle exec rackup config.ru`

The server will start listening on port 9292.

## Run the server

Running the `gatekeeper` server will start it listening on port 9292. Send HTTP POSTs to the `/1/events/<dataset-name>` endpoint with an `X-HONEYCOMB-TEAM` header containing one of the hardcoded api keys and with a body containing a JSON object. The server will process the POST and if everything looks good, eventually write it to `/tmp/api.#`, where # is a partition number (between 1-5).

example of sending an event to the server:
```bash
➜  curl -v localhost:8080/1/events/wade \
    -H "X-Honeycomb-Team: abcd123EFGH" \
    -H "X-Honeycomb-Event-Time: 2018-07-03T20:59:08.832016791Z" \
    -d '{"foo":3}'
```
This will show you the instrumentation events on the command line instead of sending them to Honeycomb.

If you want to send this data to your dataset you can configure the Beeline with your write_key, and dataset in `server.rb` in the `Honeycomb.configure` method call.

Hard-coded values for `X-Honeycomb-Team` (required header):

* abcd123EFGH
* ijkl456MNOP
* qrst789UVWX

Hard-coded values for dataset names (required in the URL):

* wade
* james
* helen
* peter
* valentine
* andrew

Expected values for `X-HONEYCOMB-SAMPLERATE` (optional): positive integers. If absent, defaults to 1

Expected values for `X-HONEYCOMB-EVENT-TIME` (optional): RFC3339 formatted timestamps. If absent, defaults to the current time

Any values other than those listed above will cause a HTTP status 401 (for api keys) or 400 (for dataset names) to be returned by the server along with an error message.  Errors can also be generated by sending malformed JSON or broken expected headers

Example output instrumentation events you'll see in Honeycomb:

```json
{
   "meta.beeline_version":"0.4.0",
   "meta.local_hostname":"your.localhost_name",
   "service_name":"apiary",
   "meta.package":"rack",
   "meta.package_version":"1.3",
   "type":"http_server",
   "name":"POST /1/events/james",
   "request.method":"POST",
   "request.path":"/1/events/james",
   "request.protocol":"http",
   "request.http_version":"HTTP/1.1",
   "request.host":"localhost:4567",
   "request.remote_addr":"::1",
   "request.header.user_agent":"curl/7.54.0",
   "trace.trace_id":"0212228a-6bb0-41fb-bb76-4f27dd7fbc6e",
   "trace.span_id":"0212228a-6bb0-41fb-bb76-4f27dd7fbc6e",
   "app.HTTP_X_HONEYCOMB_SAMPLERATE":"2",
   "app.HTTP_X_HONEYCOMB_TEAM":"abcd123EFGH",
   "app.HTTP_X_HONEYCOMB_EVENT_TIME":"2018-07-03T20:59:08.832016791Z",
   "app.sample_rate":2,
   "app.timer.parse_json_dur_ms":0,
   "app.team":{
      "id":1,
      "name":"RPO",
      "write_key":"abcd123EFGH"
   },
   "app.timer.validated_writekey_dur_ms":0,
   "app.dataset":{
      "id":2,
      "name":"james",
      "partition_list":[
         1,
         2,
         4
      ]
   },
   "app.timer.resolve_dataset_timer_dur_ms":0,
   "app.chosen_partition":1,
   "app.timer.grab_partition_dur_ms":0,
   "app.event_time":"2018-07-03T20:59:08.832016791Z",
   "app.timer.event_time_delta_sec":1530922191,
   "app.hit_schema_cache":true,
   "app.timer.get_schema":0,
   "response.status_code":200,
   "duration_ms":2.296
}
```
