# ruby-gatekeeper

## Overview

This is an example app used to explore Honeycomb.  It implements the /1/events endpoint of our public API: see the docs for that on our [main documentation site](https://docs.honeycomb.io/api/events/). It is intentionally a little bigger than the normal example app used to demonstrate a library because we wanted to show a bit about how instrumentation moves through a larger app and address concepts like context propagation, adding complex objects to instrumentation, and how timers fit in larger blocks.

## Download or Build

First, create and activate a virtual environment by downloading the code or cloning the repository.

To install the requirements, run:

`bundle install`

Start the application:

`ruby server.rb`

The server will start listening on port 4567.


## Run the server

Before you launch the server, set the following environment variables:

* `HONEYCOMB_WRITEKEY` - specifies the API key (aka "write key") available from [your account page](https://ui.honeycomb.io/account)
* `HONEYCOMB_DATASET` - specify the dataset to where instrumentation events will be sent
* `HONEYCOMB_SERVICE` - specify the name of your app (defaults to the dataset name)

Running the `apiary` server will start it listening on port 4567. Send HTTP POSTs to the `/1/events/<dataset-name>` endpoint with an `X-HONEYCOMB-TEAM` header containing one of the hardcoded api keys and with a body containing a JSON object. The server will process the POST and if everything looks good, eventually write it to `/tmp/api#.log`, where # is a partition number (between 1-5).

example of sending an event to the apiary server:
```bash
➜  curl -v localhost:8080/1/events/wade \
    -H "X-Honeycomb-Team: abcd123EFGH" \
    -H "X-Honeycomb-Event-Time: 2018-07-03T20:59:08.832016791Z" \
    -d '{"foo":3}'
```
If you want to just see the instrumentation events on the command line instead of sending them to Honeycomb, add `(debug: true)` to the `Honeycomb.init` function in `server.rb`. By calling `Honeycomb.init(debug: true)`(and after restarting your server), the instrumentation events will the Beeline will not send any events to Honeycomb, but will instead print them to your app's standard error.

Hard-coded values for `X-Honeycomb-Team` (required header):

* abcd123EFGH
* ijkl456MNOP
* qrst789UVWX

Hard-coded values for dataset names (required in the URL):

* wade
* james
* helen
* peter
* valentine
* andrew

Expected values for `X-HONEYCOMB-SAMPLERATE` (optional): positive integers. If absent, defaults to 1

Expected values for `X-HONEYCOMB-EVENT-TIME` (optional): RFC3339 formatted timestamps. If absent, defaults to the current time

Any values other than those listed above will cause a HTTP status 401 (for api keys) or 400 (for dataset names) to be returned by the server along with an error message.  Errors can also be generated by sending malformed JSON or broken expected headers

Example output instrumentation events you'll see in Honeycomb:

```json
{
   "meta.beeline_version":"0.4.0",
   "meta.local_hostname":"your.localhost_name",
   "service_name":"apiary",
   "meta.package":"rack",
   "meta.package_version":"1.3",
   "type":"http_server",
   "name":"POST /1/events/james",
   "request.method":"POST",
   "request.path":"/1/events/james",
   "request.protocol":"http",
   "request.http_version":"HTTP/1.1",
   "request.host":"localhost:4567",
   "request.remote_addr":"::1",
   "request.header.user_agent":"curl/7.54.0",
   "trace.trace_id":"0212228a-6bb0-41fb-bb76-4f27dd7fbc6e",
   "trace.span_id":"0212228a-6bb0-41fb-bb76-4f27dd7fbc6e",
   "app.HTTP_X_HONEYCOMB_SAMPLERATE":"2",
   "app.HTTP_X_HONEYCOMB_TEAM":"abcd123EFGH",
   "app.HTTP_X_HONEYCOMB_EVENT_TIME":"2018-07-03T20:59:08.832016791Z",
   "app.sample_rate":2,
   "app.timer.parse_json_dur_ms":0,
   "app.team":{
      "id":1,
      "name":"RPO",
      "write_key":"abcd123EFGH"
   },
   "app.timer.validated_writekey_dur_ms":0,
   "app.dataset":{
      "id":2,
      "name":"james",
      "partition_list":[
         1,
         2,
         4
      ]
   },
   "app.timer.resolve_dataset_timer_dur_ms":0,
   "app.chosen_partition":1,
   "app.timer.grab_partition_dur_ms":0,
   "app.event_time":"2018-07-03T20:59:08.832016791Z",
   "app.timer.event_time_delta_sec":1530922191,
   "app.hit_schema_cache":true,
   "app.timer.get_schema":0,
   "response.status_code":200,
   "duration_ms":2.296
}
```
